# TRGT: Tandem Repeat Genotyper

TRGT is a tool for targeted genotyping of tandem repeats from PacBio HiFi data.
In addition to the basic size genotyping, TRGT profiles sequence composition,
mosaicism, and CpG methylation of each analyzed repeat. TRGT comes with a
companion tool TRVZ for visualization of reads overlapping the repeats.

## Early version warning

Please note that TRGT is still in early development. We are still tweaking the
input / output file formats and making changes that can affect the behavior of
the program.

## Availability

- TRGT and TRVZ Linux binaries are [available here](https://github.com/PacificBiosciences/trgt/releases)
- Repeat definition files are available in [this Zenodo repository](https://zenodo.org/record/8329210)
  and definitions of known pathogenic repeats are [also available here](repeats/).

## TRGTdb

TRGT outputs VCFs containing TR alleles from each region in the repeat catalog.
To facilitate analysis of alleles across multiple samples, we provide the TRGTdb
which can be found [here](https://github.com/PacificBiosciences/trgt/pull/6).
After cloning that fork, the TRGTdb can be installed by running
`python3 -m pip install trgt/`. See the fork's `notebooks/` directory for tutorials
converting results into TRGTdb as well as example analyses. TRGTdb was developed by
[Adam English](https://github.com/ACEnglish).

## Documentation

- Tutorials
  - Introductory tutorial: [non-interactive](docs/tutorial.md) and
    [interactive](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/tandem-repeat-workflows/trgt-tutorial/HEAD?labpath=tutorial.ipynb)
    versions
  - [Interpreting TRVZ plots](docs/trvz-plots.md)
- Reference
  - [Command-line interface](docs/cli.md)
  - [Repeat definition file](docs/repeat_files.md)
  - [VCF files generated by TRGT](docs/vcf_files.md)

## Need help?

If you notice any missing features, bugs, or need assistance with analyzing the
output of TRGT, please don't hesitate to [reach out by email](mailto:edolzhenko@pacificbiosciences.com)
or open a GitHub issue.

## Support information

TRGT is a pre-release software intended for research use only and not for use
in diagnostic procedures. While efforts have been made to ensure that TRGT
lives up to the quality that PacBio strives for, we make no warranty regarding
this software.

As TRGT is not covered by any service level agreement or the like, please do
not contact a PacBio Field Applications Scientists or PacBio Customer Service
for assistance with any TRGT release. Please report all issues through GitHub
instead. We make no warranty that any such issue will be addressed, to any
extent or within any time frame.

## Citation
If you use TRGT, please cite our pre-print:

[Dolzhenko E, English A, Dashnow H, De Sena Brandine G, Mokveld T, Rowell WJ,
Karniski C, Kronenberg Z, Danzi MC, Cheung W, Bi C, Farrow E, Wenger A,
Martínez-Cerdeño V, Bartley TD, Jin P, Nelson D, Zuchner S, Pastinen T,
Quinlan AR, Sedlazeck FJ, Eberle MA. Resolving the unsolved: Comprehensive
assessment of tandem repeats at scale. bioRxiv. 2023](https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.05.12.540470)

## Full Changelog

- 0.3.4
  - Improved label spacing in TRVZ plots
- 0.4.0
  - Added TRVZ tutorial
  - Added sample karyotype parameter (`XX` or `XY`)
  - Renamed VCF genotype field `ALCI` to `ALLR`
  - Made genotyping algorithm changes to improve accuracy
- 0.5.0
  - The genotyper now uses information about SNPs adjacent to repeats
  - BAM files now contain read-to-allele assignments
  - Added support for gzip compressed repeat files
  - Improved error handling and error messages

### DISCLAIMER
THIS WEBSITE AND CONTENT AND ALL SITE-RELATED SERVICES, INCLUDING ANY DATA, ARE 
PROVIDED "AS IS," WITH ALL FAULTS, WITH NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY 
KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES 
OF MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. YOU ASSUME TOTAL RESPONSIBILITY AND RISK FOR YOUR USE OF THIS
SITE, ALL SITE-RELATED SERVICES, AND ANY THIRD PARTY WEBSITES OR APPLICATIONS. NO
ORAL OR WRITTEN INFORMATION OR ADVICE SHALL CREATE A WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. ANY 
REFERENCES TO SPECIFIC PRODUCTS OR SERVICES ON THE WEBSITES DO NOT CONSTITUTE OR 
IMPLY A RECOMMENDATION OR ENDORSEMENT BY PACIFIC BIOSCIENCES.

